# GPU implementation of SAXPY with OpenACC and OpenMP Target
* Author:   Yukihiro Ota (yota@rist.or.jp)
* Last update: October 1st 2024

## Instruction: Compile and Run
1. Source code is in `src/`. Choose either fortran or c.
2. Change directory
```
$cd src/c/      # C
$cd src/fortran # Fortran
```
3. Make. You can find three kinds of Makefile, with OpenMP offloading, with OpenACC offloading, and without any offloading. You can create three kinds of executable files by the following procedure.
```
$ mkdir omp
$ make -f Makefile.nvhpc.omp &> make.log # OpenMP Target
$ mv run.x ./omp
$ mv make.log ./omp
$ make -f Makefile.nvhpc.omp clean
$ mkdir acc
$ make -f Makefile.nvhpc.acc &> make.log # OpenACC 
$ mv run.x ./acc
$ mv make.log ./acc
$ make -f Makefile.nvhpc.acc clean
$ mkdir nogpu
$ make -f Makefile.nvhpc.nogpu &> make.log # not using GPU
$ mv run.x ./nogpu
$ mv make.log ./nogpu
$ make -f Makefile.nvhpc.nogpu clean
```
The code is successfully compiled by:
  * NVIDIA HPC SDK 23.11 in Intel Xeon Platinum 8360Y with NVIDIA A100.
  * NVIDIA HPC SDK 22.2  in AMD EPYC 7F52 (zen2) with NVIDIA RTX A5000.  
If you use a different kind of machine, we suggest that you change `-tp` and `-gpu` options in Makefile. As for `-tp`, we suggest that you simply set `-tp=native`. As for `-gpu`, you need to check the Compute Capability (CC) of your NVIDIA GPU. See [You GPU Compute Capability](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-gpus) for details. If you find that CC is 8.0, for example, you can set `-gpu=cc80`. 
4. Run
```
$ ./run.x 
```
The sample scripts are located in `tests/c` (for C) and `tests/fortran` (for Fortran). You can use them.
```
$ cd tests/c/omp
$ bash task.sh 1> out.log 2> err.log
```

## Exercise
1. Check the diagnosis message generated by the compiler when creating the executable files. Are there any differences between on the kernels `saxpy_0` and `saxpy_1`?
2. Check the elapsed time in the standard output. Also, compare the results between OpenMP, OpenACC, and no GPU.